So what does deep learning
have to do with the brain?
At the risk of giving away
the punchline I would
say, not a whole lot,
but let's take a quick look
at why people keep making
the analogy between deep
learning and the human brain.
When you implement
a neural network,
this is what you do,
forward prop and back prop.
I think because it's
been difficult to convey
intuitions about what
these equations are doing,
really creating the sense
on a very complex function,
the analogy that it's
like the brain has
become an oversimplified
explanation
for what this is doing.
But the simplicity of
this makes it seductive
for people to just say it
publicly as well as for
media to report it,
and it is certainly called
the popular imagination.
There is a very loose
analogy between, let's say,
a logistic regression unit
with a sigmoid
activation function.
Here's a cartoon of a
single neuron in the brain.
In this picture of a biological
neuron, this neuron,
which is a cell in your brain,
receives electric signals
from other neurons,
X1, X2, X3, or maybe from
other neurons, A1, A2,
A3, does a simple
thresholding computation,
and then if this neuron fires,
it sends a pulse of
electricity down the axon,
down this long wire,
perhaps to other neurons.
There is a very
simplistic analogy
between a single neuron
in a neural network,
and a biological neuron like
that shown on the right.
But I think that today
even neuroscientists have
almost no idea what even
a single neuron is doing.
A single neuron appears
to be much more complex
than we are able to
characterize with neuroscience,
and while some of what it's
doing is a little bit
like logistic regression,
there's still a lot about
what even a single neuron
does that no one human
today understands.
For example, exactly
how neurons in
the human brain learns is still
a very mysterious process,
and it's completely
unclear today
whether the human brain
uses an algorithm,
does anything like
back propagation
or gradient descent
or if there's
some fundamentally different
learning principle
that the human brain uses.
When I think of deep-learning,
I think of it as being very
good and learning very
flexible functions,
very complex functions,
to learn X to Y mappings,
to learn input-output mappings
in supervised learning.
Whereas this is like
the brain analogy,
maybe that was useful once,
I think the field has moved to
the point where that
analogy is breaking down,
and I tend not to use that
analogy much anymore.
So that's it for neural
networks and the brain.
I do think that
maybe the field of
computer vision has taken
a bit more inspiration
from the human brain than
other disciplines that
also apply deep learning,
but I personally use
the analogy to the human
brain less than I used to.
That's it for this video.
You now know how to implement
forward prop and back
prop and gradient descent even
for deep neural networks.
Best of luck with the
programming exercise,
and I look forward
to sharing more of
these ideas with you
in the second course.